# CAREER SURVIVAL GUIDE 

## Table of Contents
- [Preface](#preface-about-conga)
- [How to use this book](#how-to-use-this-book)
- [Welcome to Conga](#welcome-to-conga)
- [SAAS and the tech industry](#saas-and-the-tech-industry)
- [Working as part of a team](#working-as-part-of-a-team)
- [Working as an individual](#working-as-an-individual)
- [Preparing for a job in the tech industry](#preparing-for-a-job-in-the-tech-industry)

## Preface - About Conga
In 2006 Michael Markham and Mark Whiteside created a company built around the flagship product, Conga Composer. Their vision was to create something to improve efficiency in their customer's business and back up their products with first-class customer support. Along the way, their passion for excellence (both for their customers and for their employees), hunger for knowledge, and their drive to improve the product created a strong reputation in the Salesforce ecosystem. Conga became known as the "911 call" for Salesforce customers. Michael and Mark did an excellent job at creating a company that grew immensely, without a sales team no less! It was the Conga's outstanding product and top-notch support team that created the foundation of growth that we continue to experience.  

Fast forward to 2015. In April, Insight Venture Partners purchased a majority share of Conga and immediately went to work searching for key leaders to grow the company and build out a sales team.  In October of 2015 Matt Schiltz (CEO) and Bob DeSantis (COO) joined Conga and started shaping what the Conga of today will look like.  

In April of 2016 we made three strategic acquisitions in one day. We acquired ActionGrid to enhance our suite of products from a data standpoint; Novatus to enhance our contracts offerings and for engineering intelligence; and CRMCulture to continue with our founder's vision of offering Five-Star service to our customers by creating a team that will offer customized solutions for our customers. All of these acquisitions were key to developing Conga into the company that we are today.  

In April of 2017 (we like April) we launched a new product, Conga Contracts.
 
# How to use this book
You won't find benefits information in this book. You won't find out where to grab the source code for Conga Composer. And you won't learn how to set up your computer. This book is about making the most of your time here at Conga and the rest of your career. What can you do to make things easier on yourself? How do you work in a team, or on your own? How do you get a job in the first place?  

Throughout the book you may see annotations like this:  
[Editor - John Doe]  
This indicates that the section is written by a specific person and details a personal experience or belief. The whole book is collectively owned and edited by the engineering team, but some editors may wish to differentiate their own views from those of the general book.  

This book is broken into chapters with tips and suggestions in each about working at Conga, and more generally, a career in a technical field. It's suggested that you find a few coworkers and read through one chapter per week as you start here at Conga. Share ideas and feedback with each other on that one topic throughout the week (and send that feedback to us so we can update this book!). What do you agree with? What don't you agree with? Have a friendly discussion about it and see what strikes a chord with you.  

You will, no doubt, find some of these tips to be obvious. Some of them you may not have thought about before. The ideas in this book are just a few of the stepping stones to the larger goal of a successful career, and hopefully an inner reflection on what drives you, and some ways for you to reach your goals easier.  

Ready to dive in?  

Let's get started.  

# Welcome to Conga
## Your first day
You've done the interviews. You've signed all the papers. You're ready. Welcome to Conga!  

Take a breath.  

Your time here at Conga will challenge you and motivate you. You will find some of the most talented and brilliant engineers you will ever work with here. You will find your way through the ebb and flow of life at a growing startup. There will be fires to put out, and times that are oddly quiet. We are innovators and push ourselves to be great, and we will push you, too.
At Conga, we value growth. For us growth means opportunity. New customers allow us to build new products, hire more developers, and find even more new customers. Growth is driven by innovation and a dedication to high quality products.
Starting a new job, even within the same company, is a big change and with that comes a lot of questions and uncertainty.
So, what do you do now that you're here?
Your first day will probably be a whirlwind but soak up as much as you can. Figure out where your desk is, find the break rooms and the bathrooms. Get a general feeling of where to find things in the office. Meet with your mentor to make sure that you're prepared for day two.
YOUR FIRST WEEK
Try to take in as much of the culture as you can, both of Conga and of your individual team. Read through the handbook (and this guide!). Understand our core values. Lean on your new coworkers to help you get on your feet (we were all new at one point).
Introduce yourself to everyone and figure out what they do. Set up a few meetings with your mentor during your first week. Chat with the Engineering managers and leaders. Above all, ask questions! Starting any new job, especially with a new company, means learning new processes, tools, technology, and how that company and team operates. We all know you will have questions and are here to help you answer them.
YOUR FIRST MONTH
Depending on your experience you'll probably be doing a lot of training and learning throughout your first month. You'll get into coding soon enough; really take the first few weeks as an opportunity to slowly figure out how to work with the team, with the tools your team uses, and how you can use your skills to help drive the team forward. 
PART II: SAAS AND THE TECH INDUSTRY
SAAS stands for "software as a service". It is the idea of providing your customer with a product that they can rely on to be part of their normal business. A lot of the software you use can be considered SAAS so let's talk about some of the big ones, so you get a better picture.
WHO'S DOING SAAS RIGHT?
Salesforce is one of the first SAAS companies that comes to mind for many people. Salesforce is the top-dog in CRM (customer relationship management). Over 100K companies rely on Salesforce to do their business.
Amazon Web Services (AWS) is a huge player in the SAAS space. Their services are varied, run well, and are highly-available. AWS has become the backbone for a lot of technology stacks at companies small to large.
Slack is the instant messenger of choice for many businesses. They're worth billions by providing a service that many companies rely on to communicate internally.
STARTUPS VS ESTABLISHED COMPANIES
First, realize that startups ARE real companies. They are not different simply because people call them a "startup", or they've only been around for a couple weeks. Startups can be small and lean, or large and process-driven. Established companies can be the same way. Don't believe that all startups are super innovative, cool, and on the cutting-edge. And don't think that just because a company has been around for a few decades and has thousands of employees that they are just giant corporate code factory. Leave your preconceptions as the door.
At some point in your career you may be faced with the decision of whether to work for one of these startups or a more established company. There's no right answer, just what's right for you at the time. This applies at a higher level, too. There's no right answer of what company to go work for, just what feels right to you at the time. Your personal and professional needs will change over time so be open to the opportunities that you get.
PROFANITY IN A PROFESSIONAL ENVIRONMENT
The engineering world can be a filthy-mouthed place sometimes. You will need to find where on the cursing spectrum your team falls and probably be a little bit less profane than them, at least to start.
 
PART III: WORKING AS PART OF A TEAM
BE OPEN TO OTHERS' SUGGESTIONS
Everyone on your team has different views, has different skills, and has a unique way of approaching problems. Genuinely listen to them and realize that they may have valuable insight that you may have overlooked or not seriously considered. You don't want to be so tunnel-visioned that you miss the opportunity to learn something new.
Including your teammates also promotes feelings of value across the team, too.
RUNNING AN EFFECTIVE MEETING
Just about everyone hates meetings. That's a fact of life in the corporate world. If you find yourself running one, keep a few things in mind to make it suck a little less.
1.	Have a clear purpose for your meeting and state what it is at the beginning.
The purpose of this meeting is ___. By the end of it we should have ___.
2.	Use a "parking lot" to keep your meeting focused and on-track.
That's a great point, Steve. I think that's important to discuss. With your permission, and to keep this meeting short, I'd like to put it in the parking lot and I promise we'll come back to it. Would that be okay?
3.	Take notes for yourself and as a recap in case anyone couldn't attend. Any action items that come out of your meeting have to be written down somewhere. Save your meeting notes in a folder in case you need to reference decisions made.
4.	Follow up on these action items. If nothing happens after the meeting, then it probably wasn't necessary to begin with.
5.	Nobody hates meetings that end early. If you are only halfway through your allotted time but hit all the goals you intended, end it!
KNOW YOUR TEAM'S VALUE IN THE OVERALL COMPANY
When you understand how your team (and yourself) fit into the company's overall vision, you can appreciate and value the work that you and your team do on a daily basis. This applies to you as an individual contributor as well, but as part of a team you can help shape your team's vision, goals, and overall attitude to align with the business. This will show leadership and "being a team player" to your boss, but also feel great personally when your team gets recognition for being an example for the rest of the organization.
ALWAYS LEND A HAND WHEN YOU CAN
Your coworkers (both in your team and across teams) count on you to get the work done that you said that you would. Sometimes this means putting in a bit more effort to complete all of your tasks on time. Sometimes you'll be a bit further ahead than you planned and get done early. There is some give-and-take while working with others, so if you finish your tasks look for opportunities to help someone else. You will find it much easier to get help later if you give it now.
BE APPROPRIATE TO THE TEAM
There are some very large "gray" areas, and very fine lines, in team and company dynamics. It can be a minefield sometimes. You will figure them out over time. However, there are some universal truths in how you interact with your coworkers that you should follow.
Besides being illegal and against all sorts of policies, offensive jokes, comments, and general banter must be avoided at all times. You may feel like you're joking around with someone at work, but do you really know how they're taking it? It's better to just stay clear of that situation entirely.
See "Profanity in the Workplace" on how to appropriately use colorful language with your peers.
There is little to be gained from negativity. It serves no real purpose for you or your team. The old adage "If you have nothing nice to say, say nothing at all" proves true in the workplace. You don't want to bring down the morale of your coworkers, and making negative remarks of your boss, your company, your products, or your other coworkers is a surefire way to make other people distrust you or make them feel bad themselves (or both). There's no use in it. Be a positive member of the team and save your complaints for when you get home.
WOULD YOU WORK ON A TEAM OF "YOUS"?
Perhaps the most telling way that you can tell if you're a good teammate is to think what it would be like to work on a team where everyone is like you. Are you eager to help the team succeed, or pulling them down with negativity? Are you a pleasant person to be around, or do you find yourself being avoided like microwaved fish? What if everyone on your team acted like you did; would you enjoy seeing a team of yourself every day? It may be difficult to be objective in this kind of exercise, but honestly evaluating yourself from your teammates point-of-view is how you become a better teammate.
WHAT DO YOUR COWORKERS EXPECT OF YOU?
Above all else, your coworkers rely on you to get shit done. Did you say you'd finish that report by Friday? It better be done by Friday. Did you commit to having a feature coded up by the end of the sprint? Maybe get off Facebook and finish up unit tests for that. This goes double for tasks that your coworkers are dependent on. Imagine someone else on your team holding up your work and all you see is them shopping on Amazon every time you walk by. Don't be that person.
Your coworkers need to be able to trust you. See "Keep Promises and Deadlines" below for some tips on how to do that.
Your coworkers deserve respect, and you need to give it to them. Whether they just started today or have been around the company for years, treat everyone with whom you work with courtesy and a positive attitude. You're all working towards the same goals (company vision, personal success) and nobody is personally worth more or less than their peers.
Your coworkers want to have fun with you. Any job can be stressful, and having good, positive people around you make a difference. Joke around (appropriately) with them. Be a part of their conversations. Join them for happy hours. Be a fun person to be around.
RECOGNIZE YOUR "SPHERE OF CARING"
This can be a particularly dangerous part of working on a team. First understand that it is great to have comradery with your team. You should absolutely try to make your team as successful as possible! The "Sphere of Caring" is the mental boundary around the things you connect with and care about, with all the other stuff outside. There are two common "dangerous" spheres to keep an eye out for:
1.	"Me vs You"
This is a very natural boundary for many people. In this "sphere", you are at the center of the universe, and everyone else is a roadblock to getting what you want. You will fight many small battles with those around you because you think you have to.
While you should definitely keep your best interests in mind during your career, seeing others' as barriers will actually create barriers you didn't expect. You do not need to fight against other people in your career to progress. In fact, you will often find that you need these people to help you along!
2.	"Us vs Them"
This can be a difficult "sphere" to control. In this "sphere" you and your team are at odds with the rest of the company. Your team as a whole may feel undervalued, less respected, or less impactful than other teams. Those kinds of thoughts often turn into resentment and can be the beginning of a long-lived bitterness.
Being a strong and dedicated team is fantastic! It is always encouraged that you do your best to make, or to keep, your team working well together. Strive for the same goals as a team. Have trust in each other. However, make sure that this is not at the cost of alienating yourself from the rest of the organization. Remember that each group in the company plays an important role in moving the business forward.
KEEP PROMISES AND DEADLINES
Nothing will destroy your coworkers' trust in you as much as breaking a promise. This goes for most people in your life but it applies equally in the professional world, too. Missing deadlines is a similar issue; you made a promise that you would have work done by a particular day and you didn't do it.
Your teammates want to be able to trust and rely on you. You want to have their trust, too. Don't lose their trust by failing to type up that report, promising too much in too short of a time, or forgetting to refill the coffee pot when you got in this morning.
This is also incredibly important for your boss (and their boss). Do you want to know how your team gets respected and not micromanaged? By doing what you said you'd do. Not just once, but constantly and consistently. If your team shows that it knows how to do things well, on time, and on budget, you will most likely see less of your manager as they will shift their attention to other teams or projects which aren't running as smoothly. Be the shining example in your organization of under-promise, over-deliver.
RESPECT OTHERS AND BUST YOUR ASS
[Editor – Justin Mastic] These are my two golden rules of being a good team member and employee. If I could only give you one sentence of professional advice, it would be to "respect others and bust your ass".
From the moment you walk into the building in the morning, show respect to those around you (positivity, empathy, understanding, trust) and leave the building feeling pride in the work that you did that day. You'll notice this theme come back a few times throughout the book. I believe it's that important.
HOW TO GIVE FEEDBACK AND CRITICISM
Rarely does sugar-coating a difficult conversation leave anyone feeling good about it. You will feel that you haven't gotten your point across, and they will feel confused about why you wanted to meet in the first place. Most times it is better to be honest and to be direct. Still choose your words wisely; nobody likes to be flat-out told that there's a problem.
One popular approach is the "compliment sandwich" where you find a couple things that you appreciate about them and provide your feedback in the middle. In that way you can start the conversation positively and end it positively. 

MAKING FRIENDS OF COWORKERS
You will be spending 40 hours per week with your coworkers in (probably) close proximity. Try to get to know them on a respectfully personal level and have fun with them. They are in the same boat as you and are looking to their teammates for support.
BE "CONTEXT" PROFESSIONAL
There are a few layers of culture you should be mindful of within a company. At the top you have the overall company culture. There are also layers for your department, your development team, maybe the product you work on, or even your immediate cube-neighbors. Make sure that you find the sweet-spot for working within each of those groups.
Maybe that means being more informal when talking with your immediate team members and more formal with higher-ups (that's pretty common in the workplace). Perhaps your cube-neighbors don't like distracting music, so use headphones while you work. Dress up to match the people you work with (don't wear a suit at Conga). Over time you will learn the best way to work with the people around you; at the beginning err on the side of too professional/formal and loosen up as you go along.
SHARE PRAISE; TAKE BLAME
This concept is extremely important, regardless of whether you are a manager/leader, or an individual contributor.
One of the most universal wants of people is be acknowledged and appreciated, both in and out of the workplace. Take every opportunity that you can to show genuine appreciation for the hard work of the people around you. Nobody does great work alone; when you receive praise make sure to recognize those that helped you do that great work. There are dozens of reasons to do this and zero reasons not to.
And nobody likes being blamed for something, even if it really was their fault. Especially if you are a manager or leader, do what you can to take the blame for the things that go wrong on your team. Many times, the mistake can be traced to a flaw in process instead of an individual person. Ask yourself why the mistake happened in the first place (read about the concept of "Five Whys") and find where the mistake should have been caught. More times than not you'll identify a missing piece or better way of doing things that will prevent the mistake from happening again.
QA IS NOT YOUR SCAPEGOAT
Many development teams have a QA (quality assurance) person or people that are there to help make sure your code and product is rock solid. One flaw often seen in development teams is the idea that QA should be catching every bug that exists in your product. That should not be the case. QA is there to help you verify quality, not implement it.
It is your responsibility as a developer to create high-quality code. That means using proper architecture and technology for what you're building, unit testing your code, and manual testing if necessary. Too often developers build a "happy path" solution which may take care of some of the big use cases but neglect the "sad path" since it's usually a harder task. They then give the solution to QA for them to find out what else needs to be implemented. This is the wrong way to look at QA. Your goal as a developer is for QA to be frustrated that they can't break your solution.
WE ALL HAVE END-USERS
Even if you don't talk with the customers of your company directly, you still have an end-user. Never think that you develop in a vacuum and that the quality of your code doesn't matter. Think about who your customers and users are for your role. Here are some examples to get you started:
API Developer: Your user may be the developer on the other end of that API that is reading your documentation and testing the endpoints you've built as they integrate it into their solution.
Backend Developer: You have users everywhere! Front-end developers integrate with and use your code. Customers of the product that uses your code expect the product to be reliable which has heavy reliance on your code. Other backend developers probably need to understand your code too, so they'll be reading your documentation.
Frontend Developer: You communicate with end-users all the time… through your code! Every interaction the customer has with your product is a form of your communication with them. Every input, mouse click, the information and error messages you display, all of these are how you talk with the end-user. Give them a great story by creating a fantastic experience.
 
PART IV: PREPARING FOR A JOB IN THE TECH INDUSTRY
HAVE THESE THINGS AT ALL TIMES
1.	A GitHub account with some public projects
2.	A personal website, with at least your resume on it
3.	A personal project that is demo-ready
I cannot stress enough the importance of these items to an interviewer. If you cannot be found on GitHub, or the interviewer cannot easily find anything about you, you will be passed on very quickly. These items are also beneficial for you even if you are not actively looking for a job. For example, use your personal website to test out new technology or to show off your knowledge of a subject that you find interesting. Who knows what that may lead to!
As you are probably aware, at Conga we prefer to have interview candidates demo a project of their choosing instead of a formal technical test. This is becoming a common trend and it would be a good idea to be prepared for this type of interview.
ALWAYS HAVE QUESTIONS FOR YOUR INTERVIEWERS
An interviewer never wants to hear that you have no questions for them. It will make them think that you are not really that interested in the job or the company, or that you are a know-it-all. Always, always, always have at least two questions in the ready for every interview you go on.
If your interviewer is particularly thorough you may have all your questions answered during the interview itself. A list of ten-to-fifteen questions going into the interview will help with this, but also try to keep a mental note (or write it down with the pen and paper you should have brought along with you) of any interesting they said, or questions you think of, as they come up in your interview.
If, however, every single question you were planning on asking was answered before your "formal" question time, and you cannot think of any other questions on the fly, say so in the right way. Do not simply say "You've answered all my questions.", refer to one or two specific questions and the answer your interviewer gave to them and ask your interviewer if you understood them correctly. This will show that you were paying attention to them and that you valued their time and input.
Interviewer: Do you have any questions for me about the role or the company?
You: You've answered all of the questions that I had, but I would like to make sure that I understood what you meant by 25% travel time for this role. Would that mean traveling every week, or every couple of months?
DON'T ROCK THE BOAT TOO EARLY
This is more important when you are actually in the role, but when you arrive at any new job you will see things being done that you think is inefficient or incorrect. Every company has their own processes and way of doing things. Do not assume that you know best. Use this as an opportunity to learn why it is being done that certain way. Perhaps you will find out that you were incorrect. Or maybe it can be one of the first thing you pitch to your manager after fully understanding the reasoning behind the decision. Wait a few weeks before trying to make changes in order to give yourself time to learn the ins-and-outs of your new company. You are most likely expected to just be learning during those weeks, anyway. Trying to force new ideas immediately after getting on your new team will make you look foolish.
EVERYONE IS A SALESPERSON
When you think of a "salesperson", you probably think of direct sales, cold calls, talking with customers, and trying to get people to buy something. However, realize that you're also selling something… yourself! Regardless of whether you're in a "sales" role now, you're a salesperson.
You need to sell your skills to a company in an interview. You need to sell your personality to new coworkers. You need to sell your potential to people you are networking with. If you realize it or not, you are already a salesperson. This is not a bad thing. Embrace that you are selling something and work on selling what you have to offer.
BE ORGANIZED; BE PREPARED
Coming into an interview prepared puts you on the right track to an offer letter. In preparation for your interview:
•	Practice your interview answers. See the next section for more information on that.
•	Make sure you double-check where the interview actually is and how to get there.
•	Bring a folder with a few copies of your resume, a notebook with your questions for the interviewers, and a pen.
•	Arrive 10-15 minutes early. No earlier, and no later. You may be tempted to get there early since that's what many people tell you, but that will put a burden on your interviewer when they weren't expecting you and puts everyone in an awkward position. If you're not sure about traffic or public transportation gets you there sooner and you get there more than 15 minutes early, then sit in your car or wait around outside and practice for a bit.
BASICS OF HOW TO INTERVIEW WELL
Doing well in an interview is (usually) less about your technical knowledge than about how your interviewer thinks you will fit in at the company. Assuming you didn't lie on your resume (which you should never do), they will know your technical capabilities up-front. They may test some of your knowledge to make sure of that, especially in larger or highly sought-after positions, but in general they want to know that you'll be a good coworker and generally fit with the culture of the team and company.
Be concise in your answers, and for a couple reasons. First, if you start rambling you will quickly lose your interviewer's focus, your own focus, and it'll look like you may not know what you're talking about. Second, your time and your interviewer's time are valuable. If you take ten minutes to answer a question that you could have used two, that's eight minutes you could have spent answering other questions that may have mattered more to the interviewer.
Practice. You need to really ace the non-technical parts of your interview. To do that, you need to practice. If at all possible, find someone else to ask you sample questions like "Tell me about the last time that you made a mistake." and "How have you demonstrated an ability to handle conflict in the workplace?". Answer them back as you would during a real interview. It will feel awkward, and might feel pointless, but in your interview when you can recall specific examples of times that you really showed value in your previous job, you will have a leg up on all of the other candidates.
There are hundreds of sample questions that you can find online but take fifteen-to-twenty of them and really nail down your answers. You don't have to be prepared for every single question and variation that your interviewer will have but preparing for a wide range of questions will help you find a handful of real-life, professional examples that you can rely on during the real interview.
During the interview also write down the questions that you are asked by the interviewers. This will give you more practice material for next time if you don't get an offer. If you do get an offer, you can also use those questions to get a better understanding of what is important to the company.
BASIC RESUME TIPS
1.	Never have a resume more than one page long. This will be easier at the start of your career, but as you gain more skills and experience you will have to be selective of what to include. Employers will likely not read past the first page anyway, so make sure to include all of the important information on one, and hopefully only, page.
2.	Only include relevant work experience on your resume. If you don't have much professional experience then try to highlight aspects of the roles that you've had that would relate to the job you're applying for. This will help keep your resume short and focused. Unless you've been at the same job since 1996, you don't need to include the one year of helpdesk work you did from '96-97.
3.	Tailor your resume to the job ad. You should do your best to not send out the same resume to every job you're looking at because that is a sure recipe to not get callbacks. Instead, find keywords from the job ad that seem important (repeated words, required skills) and include them in your resume.
4.	Do NOT use an "objective statement". It's outdated advice to include one. Everyone has the same objective anyway (success) so use that space on your resume for something that actually matters.
5.	Proofread. Multiple times. Make sure your name and phone number are correct. Verify all links to social media, LinkedIn, and GitHub work correctly. Check for proper grammar and misspellings. Your resume is probably the first interaction you will have with a company so make sure it's not sloppy and riddled with mistakes. Have someone else (a friend, career services, etc.) read your resume to catch those errors, too. Or read your resume backwards!
 
PART V: WORKING AS AN INDIVIDUAL
HOW TO COMMUNICATE
Being able to communicate well with your coworkers is an invaluable skill in the workplace. You should be able to clearly articulate your ideas to your teammates, explain your decisions to your boss, and shoot the breeze with people outside your department. Communicating effectively is one of the most difficult skills to develop if it is not a natural part of your personality, and for many engineers, that's the case. Here are some basic principles that you should practice to improve your communication regardless of who you're interacting with.
Choose your communication method correctly. There are so many ways to reach people nowadays that you may not be sure the best way to start reaching out to someone. It's much easier when you are responding to someone else since you can mirror their communication method (i.e. if they email you, email them back. If they call you, call them back). If you need to reach out to someone first, though, then run through these questions:
1.	What does the company culture dictate? If everyone in the office communicates via email you probably should, too. If Slack or Lync are used, use those.
2.	What is your relation to the person/people you're reaching out to? Is it your boss? Is it a teammate? The more closely you work with someone, the more informal your communication method can be. For a teammate, in-person chats, or some kind of instant-messaging are probably appropriate. For your boss, or your boss' boss, email may be the best way to go since you can be more thoughtful of your wording.
3.	Are you requesting something to be done that's time critical? Then email may not be the best option. A phone call or in-person meeting would probably be a better option. Instant-messaging might also be okay but can be easy to overlook if someone is already busy.
Your goal for well written communication should be to reduce the amount of effort the recipient needs to use to understand your request. An email that is free from spelling and grammar errors is more likely to get a response than one that cannot be read without more effort than necessary because it will be easier for them to figure out what you need. It will also be more professional, which is almost always a good thing in the workplace.
In both written and verbal communication, there are times when you must be direct, and there are times when you must be delicate. In many situations being direct and honest will be the most difficult, but most effective way to communicate. "Sugar-coating" tough discussions will lessen the impact of your words, and it may also feel to the other person that you're talking down to them, or don't respect them. On the other hand, when speaking to higher-ups, being delicate may be the way to go. You should still be honest, but if a mistake has been made, take blame, let them know how you're fixing it, and move on.
Everyone will need help at some point, even you, so you will need to know how to properly ask for help. Realize that everyone is busy, so when someone does help you, be grateful for the time they spend with you. When you ask, be specific about what you need help with, so they know what to expect. Be polite. Say please and thank you.
You should also know when to ask for help, and when to buckle down on your own. When you first start a new job or new role, you'll probably have to ask for help a lot. Your coworkers will understand that. If you're working with new technology, or a particularly difficult issue, you should ask for help once you feel you've given it your best shot. Be careful with how often you're asking for help, though. Your coworkers will be more inclined to help you when they know that you've tried your best, and sometimes you need to learn, and fail, on your own for a while.
PERSONAL VALUES
[Editor – Justin Mastic] Below is a list of values and principles that I try to hold myself to and have found to help drive success in my career. I try my best to keep all of these in mind every day, and some of them are more personal "goals" that I work towards. Some days are easier than others to hold myself to these, but as long as I continue to make progress on the large scale (weeks, months, years) I can feel pretty good about how I conduct myself in the workplace.
1.	End each day being proud of the work you've done. This is my most important personal principle. When I get up to leave the office at the end of the day I want to believe that I gave everything I could to the challenges I faced that day. There's a saying in sports: "Leave it all out on the field". I apply that same philosophy to the workplace and "leave it all out in my work". This applies to everything I do in my work, from the quality of my code to the interactions I've had with my coworkers. 
2.	Demonstrate integrity. It can be difficult to tell the truth sometimes, especially when the truth makes you look bad. It's worse, though, to lie or distort the truth to avoid difficult situations. I have a strong sense of personal values, so I also try my best to stick to my moral compass and fight (when necessary) for what I believe is right.
3.	Provide value each and every day. This goes hand-in-hand with being proud of my work. If at the end of the day I can look back and point to something that provided value to a coworker, a customer, or the company, I can be proud of that. It isn't always a lot of value, but I should always have at least one thing that I've done that day that makes someone else's life a little better.
4.	Don't be afraid of the wrong things. Some of the wrong things to be afraid of are: losing your job, changing teams or roles, getting a new boss, telling the truth, and speaking up for what you believe is right. You should still be mindful of those things; they can significantly impact your job and your life. However, being afraid of these common things will cause you to play it safe and not push yourself forward, and you should always be moving forward.
5.	Be open to feedback and criticism. Over the course of your career you will receive a lot of feedback from your bosses and your coworkers. It may not always be in a formal meeting, either. Look for feedback in casual conversations. And take your criticisms with an open mind. You don't need to act on every criticism, and some advice you will get will be completely bad for your situation, but at least hear them out.
6.	Share praise and take blame. Truly successful people attribute their successes to the people around them, and for good reason. Nobody gets great things done alone. Be grateful for the help that others give you and be sure to credit them for it. Showing appreciation and acknowledgement will, of course, help to keep positive relationships with them, but it benefits you, too.
7.	Have an ownership mentality. When you are given a project, own it! If something goes wrong with a product you work on, be the one to fix it! It will show your boss your leadership potential, but more than that, it's a fantastic way to learn. You can learn about the technical aspects of a project, or how to better communicate with your team, or branch out into other areas of the company that interest you. When you show that you're willing to be the go-to person, you'll have more opportunity to work with people you normally wouldn't, and expanding your network is a great idea.
8.	Positive attitude and work ethic beats knowledge. Often in my career I have found my technical knowledge lacking. More often than not, I am not the most technically skilled person working on a project. I find that having a great attitude and finding other ways to contribute, while also learning the things I don't know, are much better ways to provide value to the team than pure knowledge. People will generally value your positivity more than your skills.
SKILLS AND LEVELLING UP
When you start a new job or are looking to take the next step up in your career, taking on new responsibilities is part of the deal. You will want to impress your new coworkers, or your boss, and want the chance to show your value. Having responsibilities is a great thing in the workplace, by all means, take on the projects and duties that you enjoy. Be careful of taking on too many, however. It can be very easy, especially early in your career, to take on too much and become overwhelmed, overworked, and find yourself struggling to get anything done. Over time you will figure out just how much work you can realistically get done, but until you find that balance, just be aware of what you are committing to. This isn't to say that you shouldn't take on responsibilities early on, but to take on new responsibilities responsibly. Committing to do something and then not following through is a quick way to lose trust in the workplace.
One of the qualities that many good software developers share is that they are lazy. Not "sit around on the couch all day" lazy, but lazy in the sense that they will automate the parts of their job that can be automated and focus their efforts on the more complex issues they face. A saying that gets thrown around is "if you are doing something more than twice, it should be automated". This is more-or-less good advice. Some things will be easy to automate, and others will be almost impossible, so find the things you can automate and automate the crap out of them! The upfront cost will be a bit higher, but it is well worth the investment almost all the time.
[Editor – Justin Mastic] The advice that I personally give to someone starting their career in a highly technical field is to become an expert at the basics of programming. Learn how to visualize data structures. Figure out how to draw diagrams and architecture. Get really good at logical puzzles. Practice following application and data flow. These base skills will serve you much better through your career than learning syntax or tools. You can learn any programming language with enough practice, and learning new languages can be a good thing. However, being able to understand how to find a bug through architecture diagrams and logical deduction has been a much more valuable skill throughout my career. If you practice these base skills, a lot of the difficult situations you will face get a lot easier.
The next two concepts may seem contradictory, but bear with us for a moment…
First, your work should speak volumes more about you than you do about yourself. You should focus way more of your energy on providing quality work than on politicking, bragging, and talking about the great work you did. If your work is truly great you won't have to tell anyone you did it, the people around you will know. You will be recognized for great and impactful work.
Second, you should be a champion for yourself. In all workplace reality, the person who most cares about your career is you! You will need to make sure to put yourself in the right situations to advance your career in the way that you want. This probably includes talking with your boss about goals and expectations, looking for the projects that are interesting to you and finding a way to work on it, and getting your name out in your workplace (in the right way: being helpful and communicative with your coworkers).
As mentioned, these two may seem to fly in the face of each other. Be assured that you can absolutely do both! Recognition will come naturally when you talk with your coworkers and they start putting a face and name to the great work that they've seen.
Being trusted and respected in the workplace is a great place to be. Your manager probably doesn't want to micromanage you; they have other things to do. Plus, you don't want to be micromanaged either! What do you do to avoid that? By delivering high-quality value first and foremost, but also by doing so consistently. If you show that you can deliver on the commitments and promises you've made time and time again, you will gain that trust and the autonomy that comes along with it. I highly recommend reading the book "Drive" by Dan Pink. The author goes into wonderful detail about our basic motivations as humans, autonomy being one of them.
EARLY CAREER ADVICE
I have two additional pieces of advice for those just starting out their career that fit nicely in this chapter of being an individual in the workplace.
First, figure out what technology interests you early on. You may find that you really enjoy front-end coding with JavaScript. Or maybe you like structured back-end development with C#. Or machine learning. Or driver development in assembly. Or API design. Or microsystem architecture design. There's a lot of avenues for you in the tech industry, so take the opportunity to try a lot of them early and follow the ones you like. Setting a direction, even a temporary one, will help focus your energy and learning.
Second, find a "niche" passion that isn't part of your direct job. This should be something that you enjoy doing, of a reasonably small size, that can provide value for your company or team, and that provides a good break activity for when you've had enough of your normal coding for the day. Some examples are continuous delivery improvements, server architecture, and tooling improvements for software release tracking. It doesn't have to be directly technology involved either. You could find a niche passion for marketing and branding, or onboarding and training. Use your niche passion as a way to flex other "muscles" and switch up your routine from time to time. 
